# Seminar_Project_EE439
This repository contains all my notebook files that are used for writing the research article.
Topic: Evaluating the Role of Volatility in Predicting SET Index and Exploring Volatility Behavior From SET Index to Individual Stocks

Abstract:

This study evaluates the role of technical indicators in four categories (trend, momentum, volatility, volume) in predicting changes in SET index movement in multi-class classification framework. Models conducted in this study are logistic regression and decision tree. The period of investigation is from 2008 to 2019. Specifically, the role of volatility in prediction model is evaluated by using feature importances from decision tree model, and its associated interpretation is done using the results from logistic regression. To start exploring the behavior of this variable, linear regression is constructed, by taking into account volatility clustering and asymmetric responses to positive and negative shocks. However, the previous result from using SET index does not always generalize to individual stocks due to their heterogeneity. Therefore, the volatility behavior in individual stocks listed in SET should be examined. One aspect of heterogeneity considered in this study is historical volume traded. By sorting the stocks on historical volume traded and splitting stocks into ten deciles, linear regression was employed in each group for each year. The model is either run across all stocks in a particular decile or run on individual stock and the results are aggregated then. The period of study is from 2015 to 2019. The exploratory data analysis conducted in this study could explain intuition behind volatility clustering and response to shocks found in SET Index and among individual stocks. The result may give implications on applying technical indicators as trading strategies.
